the reason that we chose music was
because we were already a school that
put a high value on music we had for
many years
subsidized music tuition in the school
to a significant extent and we chose
music because we felt that music was a
universal language there was something
that all children and their daily lives
had access to use you know it was just
part of life but in school it wasn't and
we really really wanted to make music
part of life in school and use it as a
universal language to engage children in
learning to help with motivation and
enjoyment right across the curriculum
the tradition has been that we invite
well known you know people who we feel
again to speak to our students about
music and we were very very lucky the
first year that Evelyn Glennie agreed to
come and gave us a most fantastic
performance and did workshops for the
students and we've repeated that each
year looking for things for female
performers obviously particularly and
looking for things which are going to
appeal to different students last year
we had an all-girl pop group because
again it's about engaging all students
and saying music is for all of you it's
not just for
particular types of music and political
types of people it's very difficult to
quantify how school has changed since
becoming a music college I was thinking
about that and thinking you only really
realize when you stop and you look back
because it's incremental and gradual
sometimes rather than huge some things
were immediate and have immediate impact
obviously the money that we had capital
money that we had reinvested in music
technology and that had an immediate
impact on what we were able to offer
students in the curriculum
right at the beginning we decided that
what we wanted to do is to engage the
whole staff in using music across the
curriculum so we used several teacher
training days early in our life years as
a specialist music college to train
staff in how they could use with you
across the curriculum and to give them
time to plan the activities they would
do and then since then every single
training day we have whatever its theme
we've tried to provide some kind of
musical learning opportunity with the
staff on that day and all teachers have
changed their practice within music
students have completely changed the way
they view learning in music teachers
have been encouraged to use music for
learning and we've given teachers of
free rein really to experiment with
whatever they wanted to do and students
have reported that some of those
activities they find more helpful than
when we evaluate the impacts and trying
and build it more into their schemes at
work
being a music college has really helped
our relationship with the local
community and we have put a lot of
emphasis on developing community work
with a whole range of partners and that
has not just been with a small group of
local schools because we saw our role as
the one and only music college in the
area as having a role in working with
collaboration and in partnership with
all the other people who were supporting
music education not just in Northampton
but in the county so we worked in
partnership with the music service to
develop to deliver the sound start
project and we've put in additional
funding so that they could do the
project with more schools in
disadvantaged areas and we've also put
in additional funding so the thing the
most disadvantaged schools where
children might not be able to pay for
individual tuition at the end of the
project but they could do it for second
year as a whole plots so in that way
we're trying to support music learning
for those children who might have no
access at all
I think the impact on students has
mostly been that they think about
opportunities in a way that they didn't
before and again this is a very
difficult one to to be precise about
what the impact is but previously music
was something that you did if you took
music lessons outside school or in
school if you did peripatetic music
lessons and it was very restricted to a
relatively narrow group of girls now
music is reaching a far wider group of
students and students are looking at
opportunities and actually stepping
forward to take heart in the
extracurricular program in greater
numbers the workshops in school also
obviously reach students and wider
numbers but I think the greatest impact
is probably in their music lessons where
music has become much more engaging much
more active much more about being a
musician rather than passively being
taught music and I think that would be
the greatest impact of course that's
every single student in the school and
the technology has helped because if you
can't play an instrument you can use the
technology and you can still compose and
produce music playing the double bass
concept percussion piano and guitar and
I'm also members of the couple of the
school groups and I've also got a band
until I'm digging with at the moment
I play the saxophone
I'm doing my diploma I also play
clarinet and bass clarinet and I'm doing
my diploma on the clarinet I play the
violin and I'm doing my grade a
hopefully Christmastime and play the
flute and I'm doing my grade eight in a
couple of weeks no great five principal
in MI or sixteen and I'm doing my grade
seven this week at the end of the week
and I've just started piano and my
teacher thinks about 300 musics always
been my favorite subject and the chance
to do more of it was very welcome I
think things the school changed I mean
college Staton there has been such a
huge boost in music and so many more
groups have been put on but people in
the school are more aware that this is a
music college so they are given the
freedom to do music and partly what I
want to do is music concert is put up
all the certificates we've got from the
national festivals and function festival
just so people can see our achievements
because for me that's important that
people see that as a music college this
is what we've done
Oh